---
layout: post
title: "Reynolds number dependence of cross-flow turbine performance and near-wake characteristics"
description: ""
category: "conference-papers"
tags: [cross-flow, vertical-axis, wind, MHK]
author: "P. Bachant and M. Wosnik"
year: "2014"
---
{% include JB/setup %}

**Authors:** {{ page.author }}

This paper, published in the proceedings of the 2014 Marine Energy Technology Symposium (METS2014),
assesses Reynolds number dependece of the performance and near-wake for a cross-flow turbine (UNH-RVAT). 

## Abstract
Minimizing wake losses in wind or marine hydrokinetic (MHK)
turbine arrays is a crucial design consideration, as it has a
large impact on overall energy production. To understand and
mitigate these losses, interactions between turbine wakes must be
accurately predicted, with near-wakes being especially important
for cross-flow (or vertical-axis) turbines, given their affinity
for close-spaced operation. As numerical models become more
accurate, validation efforts will need to take into account scale
discrepancies between the numerical and physical models and their
real-world applications. One such important scaling parameter is
the Reynolds number, and it remains unclear what level of
confidence can be placed in models validated away from full-scale
Reynolds numbers. In other words, what is the minimum acceptable
scale mismatch for experimental validation at which models can be
said to be "accurate enough?" To address this uncertainty, we
investigated---experimentally and numerically---the effects of
Reynolds number on the performance and near-wake characteristics
of a 3-bladed cross-flow turbine. Mechanical power output and
overall streamwise drag were measured in a towing tank at turbine
diameter Reynolds numbers $$Re_D = U_\infty D/\nu = 0.3$$--$$1.3
\times 10^6$$, with performance becoming essentially Reynolds
number independent at $$Re_D = 0.8 \times 10^6$$, corresponding to
an average blade chord Reynolds number $$Re_c \equiv \lambda
U_\infty c/\nu \approx 2.1 \times 10^5$$. Detailed measurements of
the near-wake one turbine diameter downstream were acquired via
acoustic Doppler velocimetry for each Reynolds number case,
showing very slight differences in the mean velocity, turbulence
intensity, and Reynolds stress at the turbine mid-height plane,
i.e., the near-wake statistics were less Reynolds number dependent
than the turbine performance. The wake was also simulated using a
2-D Reynolds-averaged Navier--Stokes (RANS) model. The performance
results show poor agreement with the experimental data, due to 2-D
blockage and the neglecting of blade end effects, however, an 
increase in performance with $$Re$$ is
predicted. The CFD predictions for wake characteristics are
reasonably accurate on the side of the turbine where blades are
turning back into the direction of the flow, or where dynamic
stall is occurring, but Reynolds number dependence is much more
exaggerated compared with the experimental data.

## Citation

~~~
@INPROCEEDINGS{Bachant2014,
  author = {Peter Bachant and Martin Wosnik},
  title = {Reynolds Number Dependence of Cross-Flow Turbine Performance and
	   Near-Wake Characteristics},
  booktitle = {Proceedings of the 2nd Marine Energy Technology Symposium METS2014},
  year = {2014},
  address = {Seattle, WA},
  month = {April}
}
~~~

## Download
To download this paper, click <a href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/0BwMVIAlxIxfZX1BhM1ZqdENTd0E/edit?usp=sharing" target="_blank">here</a>.

